# 21.2.3 监控InnoDB Cluster
本节描述如何使用AdminAPI监控InnoDB Cluster。

[Cluster.describe()](#clusterdescribe)

[Cluster.status()检查集群状态](#clusterstatus检查集群状态)

[监控恢复操作](#监控恢复操作)

[InnoDB Cluster和组复制协议](#InnoDB-Cluster和组复制协议)

[实例上检查MySQL版本](#实例上检查MySQL版本)

## Cluster.describe()

>To get information about the structure of the InnoDB Cluster itself, use the Cluster.describe() function:
```
mysql-js> cluster.describe();
{
    "clusterName": "testCluster",
    "defaultReplicaSet": {
        "name": "default",
        "topology": [
            {
                "address": "ic-1:3306",
                "label": "ic-1:3306",
                "role": "HA"
            },
            {
                "address": "ic-2:3306",
                "label": "ic-2:3306",
                "role": "HA"
            },
            {
                "address": "ic-3:3306",
                "label": "ic-3:3306",
                "role": "HA"
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
>The output from this function shows the structure of the InnoDB Cluster including all of its configuration information, and so on. The address, label and role values match those described at Checking a cluster's Status with Cluster.status() .

获取InnoDB Cluster本身结构的信息，可以使用`Cluster.describe()`。
```
mysql-js> cluster.describe();
{
    "clusterName": "testCluster",
    "defaultReplicaSet": {
        "name": "default",
        "topology": [
            {
                "address": "ic-1:3306",
                "label": "ic-1:3306",
                "role": "HA"
            },
            {
                "address": "ic-2:3306",
                "label": "ic-2:3306",
                "role": "HA"
            },
            {
                "address": "ic-3:3306",
                "label": "ic-3:3306",
                "role": "HA"
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
输出展示了InnoDB Cluster的结构，包括它的所有配置信息等。地址、标签和角色等与`Cluster.status()`一致。

## Cluster.status()检查集群状态

>Cluster objects provide the status() method that enables you to check how a cluster is running. Before you can check the status of the InnoDB Cluster, you need to get a reference to the InnoDB Cluster object by connecting to any of its instances. However, if you want to make changes to the configuration of the cluster, you must connect to a "R/W" instance. Issuing status() retrieves the status of the cluster based on the view of the cluster which the server instance you are connected to is aware of and outputs a status report.
>
>The instance's state in the cluster directly influences the information provided in the status report. Therefore ensure the instance you are connected to has a status of ONLINE.
>
>For information about how the InnoDB Cluster is running, use the cluster's status() method:
```
mysql-js> var cluster = dba.getCluster()
mysql-js> cluster.status()
{
    "clusterName": "testcluster", 
    "defaultReplicaSet": {
        "name": "default", 
        "primary": "ic-1:3306", 
        "ssl": "REQUIRED", 
        "status": "OK", 
        "statusText": "Cluster is ONLINE and can tolerate up to ONE failure.", 
        "topology": {
            "ic-1:3306": {
                "address": "ic-1:3306", 
                "mode": "R/W", 
                "readReplicas": {}, 
                "role": "HA", 
                "status": "ONLINE"
            }, 
            "ic-2:3306": {
                "address": "ic-2:3306", 
                "mode": "R/O", 
                "readReplicas": {}, 
                "role": "HA", 
                "status": "ONLINE"
            }, 
            "ic-3:3306": {
                "address": "ic-3:3306", 
                "mode": "R/O", 
                "readReplicas": {}, 
                "role": "HA", 
                "status": "ONLINE"
            }
        }
    }, 
    "groupInformationSourceMember": "mysql://icadmin@ic-1:3306"
}
```
>The output of `Cluster.status()` provides the following information:
>
>- clusterName: name assigned to this cluster during dba.createCluster().
>
>- defaultReplicaSet: the server instances which belong to an InnoDB Cluster and contain the data set.
>
>- primary: displayed when the cluster is operating in single-primary mode only. Shows the address of the current primary instance. If this field is not displayed, the cluster is operating in multi-primary mode.
>
>- ssl: whether secure connections are used by the cluster or not. Shows values of REQUIRED or DISABLED, depending on how the memberSslMode option was configured during either createCluster() or addInstance(). The value returned by this parameter corresponds to the value of the group_replication_ssl_mode server variable on the instance. See Securing your Cluster.
>
>- status: The status of this element of the cluster. For the overall cluster this describes the high availability provided by this cluster. The status is one of the following:
>
>   - ONLINE: The instance is online and participating in the cluster.
>
>   - OFFLINE: The instance has lost connection to the other instances.
>
>   - RECOVERING: The instance is attempting to synchronize with the cluster by retrieving transactions it needs before it can become an ONLINE member.
>
>   - UNREACHABLE: The instance has lost communication with the cluster.
>
>   - ERROR: The instance has encountered an error during the recovery phase or while applying a transaction.
>
>     Once an instance enters ERROR state, the super_read_only option is set to ON. To leave the ERROR state you must manually configure the instance with super_read_only=OFF.
>
>   - (MISSING): The state of an instance which is part of the configured cluster, but is currently unavailable.
>
>     The MISSING state is specific to InnoDB cluster, it is not a state generated by Group Replication. MySQL Shell uses this state to indicate instances that are registered in the metadata, but cannot be found in the live cluster view.
>
>- topology: The instances which have been added to the cluster.
>
>- Host name of instance: The host name of an instance, for example localhost:3310.
>
>- role: what function this instance provides in the cluster. Currently only HA, for high availability.
>
>- mode: whether the server is read-write ("R/W") or read-only ("R/O"). From version 8.0.17, this is derived from the current state of the super_read_only variable on the instance, and whether the cluster has quorum. In previous versions the value of mode was derived from whether the instance was serving as a primary or secondary instance. Usually if the instance is a primary, then the mode is "R/W", and if the instance is a secondary the mode is "R/O". Any instances in a cluster that have no visible quorum are marked as "R/O", regardless of the state of the super_read_only variable.
>
>- groupInformationSourceMember: the internal connection used to get information about the cluster, shown as a URI-like connection string. Usually the connection initially used to create the cluster.
>
>To display more information about the cluster use the extended option. From version 8.0.17, the extended option supports integer or Boolean values. To configure the additional information that Cluster.status({'extended':value}) provides, use the following values:
>
>- 0: disables the additional information, the default
>
>- 1: includes information about the Group Replication Protocol Version, Group name, cluster member UUIDs, cluster member roles and states as reported by Group Replication, and the list of fenced system variables
>
>- 2: includes information about transactions processed by connection and applier
>
>- 3: includes more detailed statistics about the replication performed by each cluster member.
>
>Setting extended using Boolean values is the equivalent of setting the integer values 0 and 1. In versions prior to 8.0.17, the extended option was only Boolean. Similarly prior versions used the queryMembers Boolean option to provide more information about the instances in the cluster, which is the equivalent of setting extended to 3. The queryMembers option is deprecated and scheduled to be removed in a future release.
>
>When you issue Cluster.status({'extended':1}), or the extended option is set to true, the output includes:
>
>- the following additional attributes for the defaultReplicaSet object:
>
>   - GRProtocolVersion is the Group Replication Protocol Version being used in the cluster.
>
>   - groupName is the group's name, a UUID.
>
>- the following additional attributes for each object of the topology object:
>
>   - fenceSysVars a list containing the name of the fenced system variables which are enabled. Currently the fenced system variables considered are read_only, super_read_only and offline_mode.
>
>   - memberId Each cluster member UUID.
>
>   - memberRole the Member Role as reported by the Group Replication plugin, see the MEMBER_ROLE column of the replication_group_members table.
>
>   - memberState the Member State as reported by the Group Replication plugin, see the MEMBER_STATE column of the replication_group_members table.
>
>To see information about recovery and regular transaction I/O, applier worker thread statistics and any lags; applier coordinator statistics, if parallel apply is enabled; error, and other information from I/O and applier threads issue use the values 2 and 3. A value of 3 is the equivalent of setting the deprecated queryMembers option to true. When you use these values, a connection to each instance in the cluster is opened so that additional instance specific statistics can be queried. The exact statistics that are included in the output depend on the state and configuration of the instance and the server version. This information matches that shown in the replication_group_member_stats table, see the descriptions of the matching columns for more information. Instances which are ONLINE have a transactions section included in the output. Instances which are RECOVERING have a recovery section included in the output. When you set extended to 2, in either case, these sections can contain the following:
>
>- appliedCount: see COUNT_TRANSACTIONS_REMOTE_APPLIED
>
>- checkedCount: see COUNT_TRANSACTIONS_CHECKED
>
>- committedAllMembers: see TRANSACTIONS_COMMITTED_ALL_MEMBERS
>
>- conflictsDetectedCount: see COUNT_CONFLICTS_DETECTED
>
>- inApplierQueueCount: see COUNT_TRANSACTIONS_REMOTE_IN_APPLIER_QUEUE
>
>- inQueueCount: see COUNT_TRANSACTIONS_IN_QUEUE
>
>- lastConflictFree: see LAST_CONFLICT_FREE_TRANSACTION
>
>- proposedCount: see COUNT_TRANSACTIONS_LOCAL_PROPOSED
>
>- rollbackCount: see COUNT_TRANSACTIONS_LOCAL_ROLLBACK
>
>When you set extended to 3, the connection section shows information from the replication_connection_status table. The connection section can contain the following:
>
>The currentlyQueueing section has information about the transactions currently queued:
>
>- immediateCommitTimestamp: see QUEUEING_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitToNowTime: see QUEUEING_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- originalCommitTimestamp: see QUEUEING_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitToNowTime: see QUEUEING_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- startTimestamp: see QUEUEING_TRANSACTION_START_QUEUE_TIMESTAMP
>
>- transaction: see QUEUEING_TRANSACTION
>
>- lastHeartbeatTimestamp: see LAST_HEARTBEAT_TIMESTAMP
>
>The lastQueued section has information about the most recently queued transaction:
>
>- endTimestamp: see LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_END_QUEUE_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitTimestamp: see LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitToEndTime: LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- originalCommitTimestamp: see LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitToEndTime: LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- queueTime: LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_END_QUEUE_TIMESTAMP minus LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_START_QUEUE_TIMESTAMP
>
>- startTimestamp: see LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION_START_QUEUE_TIMESTAMP
>
>- transaction: see LAST_QUEUED_TRANSACTION
>
>- receivedHeartbeats: see COUNT_RECEIVED_HEARTBEATS
>
>- receivedTransactionSet: see RECEIVED_TRANSACTION_SET
>
>- threadId: see THREAD_ID
>
>Instances which are using a multithreaded replica have a workers section which contains information about the worker threads, and matches the information shown by the replication_applier_status_by_worker table.
>
>The lastApplied section shows the following information about the last transaction applied by the worker:
>
>- applyTime: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_END_APPLY_TIMESTAMP minus LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_START_APPLY_TIMESTAMP
>
>- endTimestamp: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_END_APPLY_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitTimestamp: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitToEndTime: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- originalCommitTimestamp: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitToEndTime: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- startTimestamp: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION_START_APPLY_TIMESTAMP
>
>- transaction: see LAST_APPLIED_TRANSACTION
>
>The currentlyApplying section shows the following information about the transaction currently being applied by the worker:
>
>- immediateCommitTimestamp: see APPLYING_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitToNowTime: see APPLYING_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- originalCommitTimestamp: see APPLYING_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitToNowTime: see APPLYING_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- startTimestamp: see APPLYING_TRANSACTION_START_APPLY_TIMESTAMP
>
>- transaction: see APPLYING_TRANSACTION
>
>The lastProcessed section has the following information about the last transaction processed by the worker:
>
>- bufferTime: LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_END_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP minus LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_START_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP
>
>- endTimestamp: see LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_END_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitTimestamp: see LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitToEndTime: LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_END_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitTimestamp: see LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitToEndTime: LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_END_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP
>
>- startTimestamp: see LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION_START_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP
>
>- transaction: see LAST_PROCESSED_TRANSACTION
>
>If parallel applier workers are enabled, then the number of objects in the workers array in transactions or recovery matches the number of configured workers and an additional coordinator object is included. The information shown matches the information in the replication_applier_status_by_coordinator table. The object can contain:
>
>The currentlyProcessing section has the following information about the transaction being processed by the worker:
>
>- immediateCommitTimestamp: see PROCESSING_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- immediateCommitToNowTime: PROCESSING_TRANSACTION_IMMEDIATE_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- originalCommitTimestamp: see PROCESSING_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP
>
>- originalCommitToNowTime: PROCESSING_TRANSACTION_ORIGINAL_COMMIT_TIMESTAMP minus NOW()
>
>- startTimestamp: see PROCESSING_TRANSACTION_START_BUFFER_TIMESTAMP
>
>- transaction: see PROCESSING_TRANSACTION
>
>worker objects have the following information if an error was detected in the replication_applier_status_by_worker table:
>
>- lastErrno: see LAST_ERROR_NUMBER
>
>- lastError: see LAST_ERROR_MESSAGE
>
>- lastErrorTimestamp: see LAST_ERROR_TIMESTAMP
>
>connection objects have the following information if an error was detected in the replication_connection_status table:
>
>- lastErrno: see LAST_ERROR_NUMBER
>
>- lastError: see LAST_ERROR_MESSAGE
>
>- lastErrorTimestamp: see LAST_ERROR_TIMESTAMP
>
>coordinator objects have the following information if an error was detected in the replication_applier_status_by_coordinator table:
>
>- lastErrno: see LAST_ERROR_NUMBER
>
>- lastError: see LAST_ERROR_MESSAGE
>
>- lastErrorTimestamp: see LAST_ERROR_TIMESTAMP

集群对象提供`status()`方法可以让您检查集群运行状态。在您检查InnoDB Cluster状态之前，您需要连接InnoDB Cluster中的任一实例。但是如果您想更改集群配置，您必须连接到一个"R/W"实例。执行`status()`，根据连接的server实例，检索视图，获得集群状态并生成报告。

>**重要**
>
>实例在集群中的状态直接影响状态报告中的信息。因此，请确保您连接的实例的状态为`ONLINE`。

了解InnoDB Cluster状态，使用集群的`status()`方法：
```
mysql-js> var cluster = dba.getCluster()
mysql-js> cluster.status()
{
    "clusterName": "testcluster", 
    "defaultReplicaSet": {
        "name": "default", 
        "primary": "ic-1:3306", 
        "ssl": "REQUIRED", 
        "status": "OK", 
        "statusText": "Cluster is ONLINE and can tolerate up to ONE failure.", 
        "topology": {
            "ic-1:3306": {
                "address": "ic-1:3306", 
                "mode": "R/W", 
                "readReplicas": {}, 
                "role": "HA", 
                "status": "ONLINE"
            }, 
            "ic-2:3306": {
                "address": "ic-2:3306", 
                "mode": "R/O", 
                "readReplicas": {}, 
                "role": "HA", 
                "status": "ONLINE"
            }, 
            "ic-3:3306": {
                "address": "ic-3:3306", 
                "mode": "R/O", 
                "readReplicas": {}, 
                "role": "HA", 
                "status": "ONLINE"
            }
        }
    }, 
    "groupInformationSourceMember": "mysql://icadmin@ic-1:3306"
}
```
`Cluster.status()`的输出提供以下信息：

- `clusterName`:在`dba.createCluster()`时分配给这个集群的名字。
- `defaultReplicaSet`:属于InnoDB Cluster并包含数据集的server实例。
- `primary`：仅在集群为单主模式时显示。显示当前主实例的地址。如果这个字段不显示，集群为多主模式。
- `ssl`： 集群是否使用安全连接。展示为`REQUIRED`或`DISABLED`，取决于`createCluster()`和`addInstance()`时如何配置`memberSslMode`选项。这个参数返回的值与实例的`group_replication_ssl_mode`参数一致。参见[保护集群](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/configuring-innodb-cluster.html#mysql-innodb-cluster-securing)。
- `status`：集群的这个元素的状态。对于整个集群，为集群的高可用状态。状态值有以下值：
    - `ONLINE`：实例在线，参与集群。
    - `OFFLINE`：实例失去与其他实例的连接。
    - `RECOVERING`：实例在变为`ONLINE`成员前，试图通过检索需要的事务来与集群同步。
    - `UNREACHABL`：实例失去与集群的通信。
    - `ERROR`：实例在恢复阶段或者当应用事务时遇到错误。
    > 实例进入`ERROR`状态后，`super_read_only`设置为`ON`。要解除ERROR状态，需要人工设置`super_read_only`为`OFF`。
    - `MISSING`：实例的这个状态代表实例是配置集群的一部分，但是当前不可用。
    >**注意**
    >
    >`MISSING`是InnoDB Cluster特有的，它不是由组复制生成的状态。MySQL Shell使用此状态来表示实例已在元数据中注册，但在活跃集群视图中找不到。
- `topology`：已添加到集群的实例。
- `Host name of instance`：实例的主机名，例如localhost:3310。
- `role`：这个实例在集群中提供什么功能。目前只有HA，用于高可用。
- `mode`：服务是读写（"R/W"）或者只读（"R/O"）。从8.0.17版本开始，它取决于实例上`super_read_only`参数的当前状态，以及集群是否有仲裁。在之前的版本中，mode值取决于实例是主实例或者从实例。通常如果实例是主实例，则模式为"R/W"，如果实例是从实例，则模式为"R/O"。集群中没有可见仲裁的任何实例，无论`super_read_only`值为何，都会标记为"R/O"。
- `groupInformationSourceMember`：用于获取集群信息的内部连接，显示为一个类URI的连接字符串。通常是用于创建集群的初始化连接。

为显示集群的更多信息，使用`extended`选项。从8.0.17版本开始，`extended`选项支持整数或者布尔值。`Cluster.status({'extended':value})`有以下值：

- 0：默认选项，禁用额外信息。
- 1：包括组复制上报的组复制协议版本，组名称，集群成员的UUID，集群成员角色和状态的信息，以及受保护的系统参数列表。
- 2：包含由连接和应用处理的事务信息。
- 3：包含集群中每个成员执行复制的更详细的统计信息。

使用布尔值设置`extend`值等价于整数的0和1。在8.0.17之前的版本中，`extend`选项只有布尔值。类似之前的版本使用`queryMembers`布尔选项提供关于集群中的实例的更多信息，这等价于将`extend`设置为3。`queryMembers`选项已被弃用，并计划在未来版本中移除。

当设置`Cluster.status({'extended':1})`或者`extended`选项设置为`true`，输出包括：

- `defaultReplicaSet`对象有以下附加属性：
    - `GRProtocolVersion`是集群中使用的组复制协议版本。
    >**提示**
    >
    >InnoDB Cluster自动管理组复制协议版本，参阅[InnoDB Cluster和组复制协议](#InnoDB-Cluster和组复制协议)获取更多信息。
    
    - `groupName`是组名，一个UUID。
    
- `topology`对象有以下附加属性：
    - `fenceSysVars`是一个受保护的系统参数列表。目前受保护的参数为：`read_only`，`super_read_only` 和 `offline_mode`。
    - `memberId`即每个集群成员的UUID。
    - `memberRole`即组复制插件上报的成员角色。查看`replication_group_members`表的`MEMBER_ROLE`列。
    - `memberState`即组复制插件上报的成员状态。查看`replication_group_members`表的`MEMBER_STATE`列。
    
查看关于恢复和常规事务I/O、applier worker线程统计信息和延迟信息、applier coordinator统计信息，并行复制是否启用、错误信息及I/O线程及应用线程的其他信息，需要将值设置为2或者3。3等价于将废弃选项`queryMembers`设置为`true`。当您设定这些值后，会启用到集群每个实例的连接，以便可以查询实例的额外特定的统计信息。输出中包含的准确统计数据取决于实例和server版本的状态和配置。这些信息与`replication_group_member_stats`表中显示的信息相匹配，更多信息，参阅匹配的列的描述。`ONLINE`的实例在输出中包含事务章节，`RECOVERING`的实例在输出中包含恢复章节。当`extend`设置为2时，在这两种情况下，包含以下内容：


## 监控恢复操作

>The output of Cluster.status() shows information about the progress of recovery operations for instances in RECOVERING state. Information is shown for instances recovering using either MySQL Clone, or incremental recovery. Monitor these fields:
>
>- The recoveryStatusText field includes information about the type of recovery being used. When MySQL Clone is working the field shows “Cloning in progress”. When incremental recovery is working the field shows “Distributed recovery in progress”.
>
>- When MySQL Clone is being used, the recovery field includes a dictionary with the following fields:
>
>   - cloneStartTime: The timestamp of the start of the clone process
>
>   - cloneState: The state of the clone progress
>
>   - currentStage: The current stage which the clone process has reached
>
>   - currentStageProgress: The current stage progress as a percentage of completion
>
>   - currentStageState: The current stage state
>
>Example Cluster.status() output, trimmed for brevity:
 ```
 ...
"recovery": {
"cloneStartTime": "2019-07-15 12:50:22.730", 
"cloneState": "In Progress", 
"currentStage": "FILE COPY", 
"currentStageProgress": 61.726837675213865, 
"currentStageState": "In Progress"
}, 
"recoveryStatusText": "Cloning in progress", 
...
 ```
>- When incremental recovery is being used, the recovery field includes a dictionary with the following field:
>
>   - state: The state of the group_replication_recovery channel
>
>Example output Cluster.status(), trimmed for brevity:
```
...
"recovery": {
"state": "ON"
}, 
...
```
`Cluster.status()`的输出显示处于`RECOVERING`状态实例的恢复操作进度信息。显示使用MySQL克隆或者增量恢复进行实例恢复的信息。监控如下字段：
- `recoveryStatusText`字段包含有关正在使用的恢复类型的信息。当进行MySQL克隆时，该字段显示为“Cloning in progress”。当正在进行增量恢复时，该字段显示为 “Distributed recovery in progress”。
- 当在使用MySQL克隆时，`recovery`字段包含以下字段：
    - `cloneStartTime`：克隆进程启动的时间。
    - `cloneState`：克隆进程的状态。
    - `currentStage`：克隆进程达到的当前阶段。
    - `currentStageProgress`：当前阶段完成的百分比。
    - `currentStageState`：当前阶段状态。
`Cluster.status()`的示例输出，为了简洁进行调整：
```
...
"recovery": {
"cloneStartTime": "2019-07-15 12:50:22.730", 
"cloneState": "In Progress", 
"currentStage": "FILE COPY", 
"currentStageProgress": 61.726837675213865, 
"currentStageState": "In Progress"
}, 
"recoveryStatusText": "Cloning in progress", 
...
```
- 当在使用增量恢复时，`recovery`字段包含以下字段：
    - state：`group_replication_recovery` 通道的状态。
`Cluster.status()`的示例输出，为了简洁进行调整：
```
...
"recovery": {
"state": "ON"
}, 
...
```



 



## InnoDB Cluster和组复制协议
